Let's see.
Yeah, that in that area, and we need to make a big investment in that in terms of time and other resources, and we need to make sure that we really have a good focus about where we want to head.
Is anyone doing that yet?
Oh yeah, I think increasingly, but it's happening so quickly.
What has been the real key, as far as I'm concerned, is that some of the real leading business programs are making a big commitment in this area.
And when that happens, you better make sure you understand what's going on.
Berkeley, Stanford.
Virginia.
And, you know, so, now nobody's figure, and Duke, Duke is a big player with their executive NBA or the international executive NBA.
Nobody's really figured out yet exactly how they want to do it.
But it's clear that we need to be in there in the game.
And so that would be the single area, and then I would say to make sure that you really keep the ear to the ground to identify these emerging hot areas like Management Information System was 15 years ago.
I think the whole area, and we're really ahead of the game in this, like the trading with the Reliant gift and some other gifts that we're getting in that area, that
So many companies now are viewing ability to exchange and some kind of mechanism is critical to their future and they want people trained in that area.
And, you know, it used to be the utility companies, for example, that if you talked about going with a company that was really tried and true and that you'd go to work every day and it looked the same as it did the day before,
Nothing could be further from the truth today.
I mean, those companies don't even know for sure from day to day what business they're in.
And I mean, they have trading areas.
If you've ever toured one of them and some of these companies like Enron or Reliant and so forth, they'll just dazzle you.
And it drives home that we better stay on top as an educational institution of what's going on out in the marketplace.
Curriculum, are there any changes in the curriculum that you think might be considered?
Well, I think we'll continue to see technology folded in.
You know, it will be just an everyday part of what we're doing.
We can't turn out an accounting major today that if they don't have good systems capabilities, they're not going to make it.
And I think increasingly we're going to see that.
Increasingly we're going to see in the disciplines a recognition of the role that companies have.
In marketing, for example, we're developing an e-commerce track.
and also at the MBA level.
So I think we'll continue to see that.
The globalization, everybody that is doing that now, we recognize that those boundaries are gone.
I think the next decade will be one of technology and information and how you use those and how you apply them in a business setting.
What about the quality of life for you and your family during these years?
Oh, you know, I think one of the attractions of anyone living here is the quality of life, and I would advise everyone to live in Houston for a number of years before they move here to really appreciate what a difference it is.
And Houston's a fine city, but certainly
You know, we keep a lot of faculty that can make a lot more money somewhere else, particularly ones that have young families because they fully value and appreciate what a community this is.
And yet we're close enough to Houston that if there are things that you really feel like you need in a big city.
So, I mean, I can't say enough about the community and how much we've enjoyed living here.
All right, I've only got about four very general questions left.
Have we left out anything important?
No, you know, in thinking back over things, you know, I think one of the nice things about my 13 years here is there have been relatively few blips in the road.
It's been a fairly linear progression in terms of the advancement of the college, and certainly there have been milestones like the building and new programs and so forth.
You know, I view very positively that it's been fairly constant, fairly consistent, and that we haven't had major upheavals in the process, that there have been times we've sort of detoured and so forth, but for the most part, it's been steady, and it's been in a work environment that I think
our faculty and staff would describe as very, very positive.
Like in Southern Association and in the business accreditation, there have been no problems, have there?
No.
Now, we're concerned about the next round of business accreditation because it's a success or anything.
Now, a school that's as good as A&M is not going to lose their accreditation.
What could happen, though, is they could defer it or require us to
provide a plan to show how we're addressing it,
And there'll be no question of quality, but one of the criteria of ability to sustain long-term quality is the relationship of resources and student demand.
And one of the reasons we had to put in the enrollment management and the university provided additional resources is that we had far exceeded the normal bounds expected for a top quality research program.
What has it meant to you to have been at A&M these 13 years?
Yeah, most days, you know, you don't even think about questions like that.
But in looking back at it, you know, for me personally, on a non-career standpoint,
One of the best decisions I ever made because I think the relationship even with my children was impacted with it because, you know, suddenly I was able, without it being a major hassle, to go to my son and daughter's athletic events as they finished up school.
To be at a school that both my wife and I and my children felt good about going to that university.
You know, I was delighted when they selected, because I thought that they could get a wonderful education here, and they did.
So, you know, from a personal standpoint, and the fact that you do have more time that you can spend pursuing activities and with your family, it's just been great.
From a professional standpoint, it's been really
a delight and a professional satisfaction to be somewhere that had enormous potential and has been in the process of realizing some of that potential.
We're not where we need to be and we're not where I hope we will be.
And we've gotten detoured along the way with some problems that maybe we shouldn't and lost some focus.
Great place.
Did you come close to leaving during the 13 years?
I would say that the only time that I really, really came close to leaving was in the early 90s.
I was offered the position of president at the University of Texas at Arlington.
You were going to succeed another Aggie?
Let's see, who would that have been?
That was there for so long?
Yeah, I didn't realize he was an Aggie.
He was on the faculty here.
Oh, okay.
And went up there when they became a senior college, because he was my favorite colleague in the UT System, and he said he went into Fred Benson, then the dean, and said, they've offered me the job to go up there and to organize the junior and senior years
And at engineering, what do you think?
And he said Benson told him, if you stay here, you've got a splendid future.
If you go up there, there's no telling what you can, who knows what will happen with the growth of that area.
And he was there present 19 years, six months.
And did a, if Marilyn and I could tell this, a magnificent job.
And I always thought, why in the world didn't they make it another six months to say two decades, two years?
Yeah.
It was a tough decision and it really boiled down to the fact that I just personally find more satisfaction in a flagship kind of university.
And really there were some things were going well here and also
I like the people here.
And, you know, it sounds cliché and so forth, but these are really good colleagues here that if I decided at any day just to walk back and be on the faculty, I'd be delighted with the people that are here.
They're my friends.
I appreciate what they're doing.
I just decided that this is where I was better off.
All right, three questions left.
What advice would you give key decision makers about the future of Texas A&M?
Well, this is maybe somewhat self-serving.
It probably is, but why should I change now?
But I would say let's really think about what vision 2020 means and what are universities going to look like in 2020.
I'm afraid that we have targeted what universities look like in 1990 and it's a moving target and I think they've already changed and also I'm not sure in today's environment that we can be all things to all people and I just hope that we'll spend a lot of time thinking about that and not become pretty good at everything because I don't think
that will serve us best in the long run.
Having been the chancellor of one of the six most comprehensive institutions in North America, I know how difficult that was at budget time.
You just can't do it well.
That's right.
All right, next to last.
Someone walks up to you and gives you a check for a million dollars, and it has only one requirement.
You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you decide what use would be made of it.
What would you...
what would you do, have A&M do with that gift?
Well, as Dean of the Business School, I mean, obviously I would focus it if it was my call.
It is, yeah.
I would, and that doesn't mean that if I was sitting in the provost position that I would, that that's what I would do with it, but obviously I'm not in a position to judge some of the other things, but
You know, I think at this point in time I would invest that in probably graduate scholarships to help us be as competitive as possible in attracting the very best graduate students.
I think we're getting the very best undergraduate students that state schools anywhere are getting.
And we've got some terrific scholarship programs in this college.
The Mitty Foundation gave us a gift that does great scholarships.
But that's an area that I think that has got to be a priority for us.
Last question.
What feelings are in your heart for A&M now?
You know, really very positive.
I feel like I've made a pretty strong commitment to the place, and I think it's been a good investment on my part.
I've been very fairly treated here.
Nothing but very positive things.
I certainly don't agree with all the decisions.
I don't agree with all the decisions I've made, for heaven's sakes, you know.
But really a very, very positive feeling.
I'm glad that I came here, and I'm glad that I stayed here, and I'm glad that I'm remaining here.